

About the borrower: Ya’akov, a wine bar
I’m Sahar, I own two businesses: Jacob Montefiore, a cafe, and Ya’akov, a wine bar & shop. Unfortunately, our operations were interrupted when the war broke out. I flew back from my honeymoon in South Africa and I’ve been serving in the reserves in the south, as have our managers. As a result, both businesses were closed for 26 days.
Meet Sahar Wysotsky
Micro lending, Macro Impact
To overcome the challenges posed by this disruption, we are seeking assistance to establish an effective cash flow management system and to complete necessary renovations. Your support will not only aid in the recovery of our businesses but also contribute to the resilience and sustainability of our establishments.

About the owner
Eran, 30 years old, a combat officer in the IDF, co-owner of a wine bar in Tel Aviv with two friends. The business has active social media pages (2-3 content pieces per day). High technological affinity, high potential interest.

My business - My spark
I own two establishments. The first, Jacob Montefiore, is a cafe with a lovely garden located on Montefiore Street. The second, Ya’akov in Nachala, is a wine bar and wine shop situated on Nachalat Binyamin Street. This is a link to google maps https://maps.app.goo.gl/zwteCHjsd2beuVqU8

The inspiration for the name Ya’akov came from a heartfelt conversation with my father nearly a year ago, just two months before he passed away. Seeking his blessing, I asked if it was permissible to name the business after him, and he graciously agreed. Unfortunately, he passed away a week and a half before the official opening, making these businesses a tribute to him.
A few more words
I’m Sahar Wisotsky, 35 years old and happily married to Einat since our wedding this year. As an only child, I was born in Kibbutz Megiddo, where my mother, who is facing advanced dementia, resides. Currently, I call Tel-Aviv my home. Tragically, my father passed away in 2022 – the business was named in his honor.

About the lown i got:
The initial setup incurred significant costs, and I embarked on this endeavor solo initially, later joined by Tal and Yonatan a few months into the process. Currently, both businesses operate under my father’s name. To ensure proper cash flow management and to complete the renovation expenses for Jacob’s property, we are seeking a loan to support these crucial aspects of the businesses. Your assistance will contribute significantly to the success and continued growth of Jacob Montefiore and Ya’akov in Nachala.

We received the 35,000$ in November 2023
So far all payments have been established as planned

The previous update email sent to his landers included this text:
"Exciting news! The loan I received through SparkIL was extremely impactful in helping my business survive during a difficult period. With the help of SparkIL and its generous lenders, I was able to purchase two more laundry machines. I am now on the right path to continue growing my business. Thank you SparkIL for giving me the push I needed to achieve my goals and provide for my family, and thank you to all lenders!"

Sahar Wisotsky from Jacob Montefiore, his partners along with us here at SparkIL cannot thank you enough for your continued support. Make sure to follow us on social media to stay updated!"

this is a question and answers submitted recently by Ya’akov, a wine bar
Business Progress:
Q: How have Jacob Montefiore and Ya’akov grown or changed in the past six months?
Answer: There wasn’t a big change in this short time, taken into account that Israel is in War no tourists and locals are hardly going out we are doing quit good
Financial Impact:
Q:How has the loan helped improve your financial situation and cash flow?
A: it really helped a lot taken into account the overall situation it really saved our cashflow.
Community Engagement:
Q:Can you share any positive impacts your businesses have had on the local community?
A: no
Challenges and Solutions:
Q: What challenges have you faced recently, and how have you overcome them?
A: As mentioned above, the war in Israel is a huge challenge.
Future Goals:
Q: What are your main goals for the next six months?
A: survive the war, then will see
Customer Feedback:
Q: How have your customers responded to the changes and improvements?
A: our customers are very happy with the service we provide and the overall experience, we are very happy with the feedback
Marketing Efforts:
Q: Have there been any successful marketing or social media initiatives you’d like to highlight?
A: we are updating our social media constantly and we are getting attention
Support and Gratitude:
Q:What message would you like to share with your lenders regarding their support?
A: Thanks a lot for your help, please continue this approach and help other businesses in Israel.  And while you are in Israel don’t forget to give us a visit





